Um...there is no time to lose, that's my...I still feel like this. There is no time to lose. The question is extremely challenging, it's also important. Not just for particle physics and cosmology, for the human kind. I mean, how can you just face anyone and tell them that we only make this miserable few percent of the whole matter energy content of the universe. Of course the normal person says 'and so what?'


Um..let's see..all of which is to say that..um...with physics, we basically we have gotten...see physics has succeeded itself into trouble, which is that we can describe virtusally everything that we see now. So there is some, I think, doubt in maNy people's minds, young people, that there is anything relly big left to discover. Every once in a while, especially whenever you're talking, giving a public lecture, or taling to people who don't know, you're reminded of the incredible triumph that is our frustration, which is that we have a theory that works so well. And it is pretty thrilling to have a theory that works that well, and it's a very nice theory.


We have all reasons to believe that dark matter is real. We have detected an unusual source of cosmic rays, which have a characteristic energy scale of several hunderd GeV, if not more, and which prodices pairs of electrons and positrons, it appears. If dark matter is a particle, it is it's own anti-particle - so it's matter and antimatter at the same time. As two galaxies collide, the ordinary matter actually colides. You can see that they collide with each other, and you see the other component, the one that interacts so little, just passing through each other...like the other one wasn't there.


I mean, i've come to the view myself, where Theoretical Physics is almost a sort of, kind of, wierd representational art form. I think, almost in the sense that this gets to the heart of what Theoretical Physics does today faster than telling someone you're a 'scientist.' The sense in which that is true is that we're trying to.......In the same way that a poet is trying to make a beautiful thing...you feel about poetry somewhat that it's a 'discovered' thing. That withinthe languege...you've built something that is tapping into a beauty that was already there. And in the same way, I think physicists feel like we have this mathematical framework and these tools and we're looking for a sort of resonence with nature. You know it doesn't necessarly mean the theory works better, liek it doesn't necessary predict the numbers any differently, but its nonetheles theres a very real sence in which thats...you feel like you're on to something right..... It is a dissapointing truth that you can feel very sure that everyhting is going to work out and in the end it doesn't.


But the fact that Dark Matter exists by itself and that we havent seen it yet, that we don't know what it is, tells us that we have a very big problem in the sense that...we have a very limited inventory of the building blocks of nature. And so we live in a universe which is 95% unknown to us.


We have a limitation: scientists are supposed to study nature - this one, not another one. We cannot invent another one. Artists can do that. Artists are free to invent their own nature if they are not happy with the one that they see. Artists do not have this limitation, and I am really envious of this. That's what I would like to do, but I of course cannot. I would kill science if I did.


We are at a stage where, as experimentalists, we are bit lost becasue there is not a real theory out there which tells you 'you should look in this direction.' We are looking. I am looking in the dark, and that's why it is scary. It's not something where you want to spend a lot more of your years, because if it's not there, this partice, or if we are on the wrong track, you're putting a lot of effort.


But I mean, people must talk to each other, period. All people must talk to all other people, period. So this is one of the interactions which I am interested in, so I do!





I mean, how can you just face anyone and tell them that we only make this miserable few percent of the whole matter energy content of the universe. Of course the normal person says 'and so what?'

We have all reasons to believe that dark matter is real... If dark matter is a particle, it is it's own anti-particle - so it's matter and antimatter at the same time.

As two galaxies collide, the ordinary matter actually colides. You can see that they collide with each other, and you see the other component, the one that interacts so little, just passing through each other...like the other one wasn't there.

 I mean, i've come to the view myself, where Theoretical Physics is almost a sort of, kind of, wierd representational art form. I think, almost in the sense that this gets to the heart of what Theoretical Physics does today faster than telling someone you're a 'scientist.' 

...And so we live in a universe which is 95% unknown to us.
